# LSE_DA_COVID_analysis
The assessment of the Gibraltar Covid19 data subset shows data collected over 632 days (as shown by the count). There were 97 deaths over this period of time and the total number of cases were 5727 and 4670 patients recovered. 

The data is cumulative, and the summary statistics derived from the describe function can not be used to properly evaluate the data. For example, the number of deaths is fixed number (97 in total), so it is not appropriate to calculate the mean/std/percentiles unless comparisons were being drawn from the Gibraltar data subset and other regions. The same applies to the number of cases and the number of patients recovered and hospitalisations. 

Further assessment of the data would be required to a deeper insight into Covid19 statistics through comparative analysis based on regions, countries etc and examining any correlations with the vaccination data. For example, it would be good to understand how the number of cases changed over time and along with the vaccination rate and delivery of the first/second doses. Similarly, the impact of vaccination with regards to the death rate would be an interesting topic to explore within the datasets. 
Review of the dosing across different Provinces/States shows that Gibraltar has delivered the highest number of first and second doses. Saint Helen, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha has delivered the lowest number of first and second doses. Differences associated with dose delivery will also be impacted by the size of the population and other logistic/delivery factors. Calculating the per cent of individuals who have received both the first and second dose shows a very similar delivery/success rate as all Provinces/States have achieved >95%. Review of the dataset itself shows that vaccine delivery/dosing increased in numbers from the start of 2021 when the vaccines became available and looked to peak in Q2. 

The bar plot provides a clear visualisation of the difference in the number of first dose delivered compared to second doses. Further assessment of this data with regards to time specific events would help understand differences in the numbers as currently, it does not give an indepth insight into why; looking at population size, medical facilities/access etc would help to gain deeper insight into understanding these differences across the various Provinces/States. 

Review of the line plots shows a steady increase in the number of deaths over time, which reflects the increase in cases as the pandemic progressed and the number of patients increased. The interesting part pertains to the plateaus followed by an increase in deaths; likely reflecting the wave-like nature of how the pandemic progressed as new variants emerged and waves of infection aligned with both new variants and influenced by seasonal aspects and also changes in rules regarding measures to prevent spread of the virus (e.g. lockdowns, protective masks etc). The line plot assessing patients that recovered from covid-19 is influenced by two factors. The number of patients infected increased over time therefore low number of patients recovered (as indicated in the chart) is influenced by lower numbers of people actually infected with the virus early within the pandemic. However, treatment of covid-19 patients evolved over time in terms of drugs available and ‘learned’ patient intervention, particularly with patients requiring intensive care (as reported widely in news reports over this time). Furthermore, the introduction of vaccines helped to reduce morbidity rates/increase rate of patient recovery. The patient recovery curve therefore reflects the changing nature of the pandemic with multiple factors at play and increasing patient recovery over time. The end of the curve drops down, presumably due to a drop in patient admissions to hospitals (following vaccine role out etc) and only the most serious cases being cared for which these patients have lower survival rates in combination with low numbers of patients being admitted to hospital. It would be interesting to further scrutinise the data examaining specific points in time and how they influeunce both rates of patient deaths and reocvery rates. 

The tweet review shows covid-19 trending highly over this period, which is not unexpected given that this was the worse pandemic in a 100 years. This had a huge impact on individuals across the globe and in many aspects of daily life. 

